[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: One of my
favorite guests, Vernon Mahabal,
is back with us to
expand the story of what
we can learn from our hands.
In our last
conversation, which I
suggest you might
enjoy watching,
Vernon talked about palm reading
at birth in the Eastern world
to help guide the child's life.
Today, we're going to speak
of the soul's expression
in the palm of our hands.
Welcome back, Vern.
So good to see you again.
>>VERNONMAHABAL:
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: I love the
fact that there's
so much depth to this
subject because I've
looked into it before.
I've even interviewed
other people on it.
But you're the first
one that's really
gone into the soul's expression,
past life expression, et cetera.
And at the same time, you're--
and that's deep stuff,
deep one would
term metaphysical.
I'd say natural.
But you're also
starting to make it out
into the more mainstream world
with this information, which
is very encouraging.
So tell us why that's
happening because there's
a trend to everything.
And I know this
interest you as well.
Why is your art and are
the intuitive art starting
to make it mainstream now?
>>MAHABAL: Well,
it's interesting.
I was just having a
conversation earlier today
about this very subject.
After, let's say,
2000, the year of 2000,
and especially after
2012, the work that I do,
metaphysical work readings,
has become mainstream--
psychic work,
astrology, numerology.
We're mainstream now.
So let's say in the early
'80s or '90s, if you said, oh,
I'm going to go see my
astrologer, people would say,
what?
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES] Yeah.
>>MAHABAL: But now, you could
say it in the same breath
as, oh, I'm going to
go to my chiropractor.
So our work, the metaphysical
work of giving readings,
is part of the culture now.
It's about time.
>>REGINA: It is about time.
I mean, I live in
a part of the world
where it's definitely
not mainstream.
It's a part of California.
Not mainstream but,
interestingly, certain things
will hit even in
communities where
their minds are very
much indoctrinated
toward something else entirely.
There are certain
things that will hit.
And palm reading seems to be
one of those divination tools
that kind of is widely
accepted because we've all
heard about it.
We used to see
the metaphorical--
not metaphorical but give me--
>>MAHABAL: Like the
Gypsy palm reader?
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
what I was going to say.
Yeah, we all saw the Gypsy
palm readers growing up.
And so why is it you think
that hand reading in particular
is so much easier for
people to take on board?
>>MAHABAL: Well,
Regina, palmistry
is a brother or
sister to astrology.
So anything that an
astrologer can see,
a palmist, a qualified,
seasoned palmist
can see that in the hands.
And if you look at the ancient
cultures, such as China, Japan,
Southeast Asia,
especially India,
even Europe in the
medieval times,
they used palmistry constantly.
It was just as well known and
as well used as astrology.
So palmistry gives
the same information.
And on a deeper level,
there's an entire extra level
of metaphysical or
subconscious aspects
in the hand that are coming
directly from the soul.
And that deepens our work.
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>>MAHABAL: So when
a seasoned palmist
is looking at a
person's hand, they
can really connect
with the subconscious
aspect of what's radiating
from a person's palms.
And they can read
around the planet,
so to speak, making the
reading even deeper.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
Well, you're also a
seasoned at Vedic astrology.
That's something that you do.
And so would you say
that it's in the stars
that this time simply has
arrived, this time has arrived--
>>MAHABAL: That's a beautiful--
>>REGINA: --to make the
new age the old age?
It's not new anymore.
It's old.
>>MAHABAL: That's a
beautiful way of saying it.
I actually see, in
five or six years,
a resurgence of the
mind, body, spirit world.
It's almost going to
become a renaissance.
It is going to
So it's going to be a few years,
but it's starting to happen now.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
>>MAHABAL: So, for instance, if
you went into a Barnes and Noble
in 1990 and you asked
for an astrology book
or a palmistry book, people
who work there would say,
what are you talking about?
Now, you go into a
Barnes and Noble,
and there's sections and
sections of metaphysical tomes.
>>REGINA: So it's going to
explode even further, though,
you say, in five or six years?
>>MAHABAL And bigger
and bigger and bigger.
>>REGINA: This is good to know.
>>MAHABAL: And
unfortunately, let's say
the Judeo-Christian
ideas are going
to go the way of the dinosaur.
It'll still be part
of our culture.
How can it not be?
But the metaphysical,
spiritual aspects
of the mind, body, spirit
world, the New Age world,
I absolutely see it's
going to take off
in a very big way, especially
after 2030, '31, '32, '33.
It's going to be, if you
will, the religion of the day.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, it takes us
back to our roots,
which is the nature of reality
and all of the influences
that help us create
who we are as a soul.
And the religions
have come in sideways
and cut us off from
that, unfortunately.
So yeah, it's time for us to
keep the good parts of religions
that serve humanity and
then let the rest of it
die, the old discourse,
the old stories die.
>>MAHABAL: Exactly.
And you were talking
about Vedic astrology.
The whole aspects of Vedic
culture, for instance,
is that god and the goddesses
are seen as loving and warm,
not personages to be feared.
They're seen as the
personification of love
and humility and magnanimity.
And so it's different in
the Judeo-Christian ethic.
But at the same
time, the generations
that will come into that
world when they're 30 and 40
will assimilate the more
Eastern ethics even stronger.
>>REGINA: And arguably, that's
where they were before once long
ago, just reincarnating.
>>MAHABAL: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So actually,
it's in all of us.
It's comfortable within
all of us on a soul level.
So we'll just go back to an
external societal comfort
with it, which is great.
>>MAHABAL: Yeah.
And I also want
to say, do I have
metaphysical readings
and intuitive
readings become mainstream?
It's because people
are seeing a lacking
in going to a psychologist
or a psychiatrist or a career
counselor.
Their work is just not
holding up to the fact
that people want more.
They don't just want to know,
hey, what kind of a career
am I going to do?
That's an important part.
But now people are starting
to ask, well, who am I?
What's the purpose of life?
What am I doing here?
Is there a God?
And so that is coming
into our culture.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and a lot--
I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
>>MAHABAL: No, and
just with that,
people are asking for deeper
understandings of themselves.
And that can come through
astrology and palmistry.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Because a lot of
the talk therapies,
for example, aren't
really scratching
down into the subconscious,
unconscious, and even
into past lives and
the influences that are
making us cuckoo in the moment.
>>MAHABAL: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
A career consultant
could not tell you
what you did in your
past life or what
they see for your future.
>>REGINA: No.
[LAUGHTER]
So let's talk about--
you say-- and you believe with
all your heart because this is
your life--
that this is the most
powerful divination tool
we have, that our hands
are the most powerful tool.
Explain why the hands.
>>MAHABAL: Regina, it's
such an intimate divination.
You're looking at
a person's hands.
the configurations.
You're looking at the
placements of their fingers,
their thumbs, the whole
culture of their hands.
And so when people are getting
a reading from a palmist,
they feel that much
more on a closeness
and intimate aspect
than they even
do with getting an
astrological reading.
Because many times someone
who is doing tarot,
the tarot reader will
understand the card,
but the querent will not.
Or someone getting an
astrological reading,
the astrologer is
saying, oh, well, Jupiter
is crushing into Mars right now.
So this is happening.
And it's a little
bit distant, you see.
But when someone is
actually getting a reading
and you're actually
looking at their hands
and pointing things out,
they feel that closeness,
that connection, that communion.
Wow, this person is getting all
this information from my hands.
It couldn't be more intimate.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MAHABAL: You see.
>>REGINA: Makes sense.
>>MAHABAL: So I consider
it also the most powerful
of the divinatory tools
because it combines astrology
with intuition.
You can't separate the two.
Even the most
scientific, if you will,
palmist, who's only using
astrology for some time,
will begin to become
more intuitive looking
at hands daily, you see.
So it contains elements of
both the scientific elements
of hard astrology, if you
will, and the very deep
metaphysical aspects coming
directly from the soul.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about that because you say,
it actually tells you about
the constitution of your soul.
Your hands can tell you about
What does that mean?
And what are you seeing?
>>MAHABAL: Regina,
We are eternal.
We are not this body.
If one looks at
hands long enough,
one can understand that,
actually, the soul is eternal.
It's full of knowledge and
awareness, and it's happy.
It's joyful.
But while we're covered with
the material body and a material
mind full of material needs
and encumbrances and wants,
we forget our eternal nature.
We forget our internal
awareness And we
look for happiness externally.
And actually, happiness
and blissfulness and joy
are contained within the
soul and the connection
with God, with the
higher intelligences.
And while we're embodied and we
identify with the material body,
that becomes something that we
completely are not aware of.
So the problem with
our society right
now is that we have been
taught that we are our body.
We are Black.
We are white.
We are German.
We are Italian.
But we're not any of
these things eternally.
We're not this body.
And so if someone understands
that ultimately, they're
not this body,
they're spirit soul,
they're eternal, just that
idea will help someone
to move forward and not take
the miseries of this world
so seriously.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So you say that it shows
the constitutional nature
of the soul.
Tell us what constitutional--
>>MAHABAL: The
constitutional nature
of the soul, as seen from
a palmistic point of view,
is that the soul is
composed completely
of love, of devotion,
of what's called bhakti.
And the soul's nature
is to give service.
That is what makes the soul
happy, to be of service.
And the soul's nature
is pure humility.
When a person's soul is pure,
then they are naturally humble.
They're naturally tolerant.
They don't lament when they lose
things in the material world.
They don't even find that much
happiness when they gain things
in the material world.
They understand that the
most precious things are
love and devotion and service.
>>REGINA: So that's when
the purity of the soul
is really coming through
the third-dimensional life
of the person that's embodied.
And sometimes we call
that a type of mastery
or a type of enlightenment
when a soul can
live purely through the body.
Do you see that in the hands
of people who do, do that?
>>MAHABAL: Yes, yes.
In hands of men and
women who are saintly,
they move through this
world completely unattached
from the encumbrances
of this material world.
They use the facilities
of the material world,
but they're not attached.
It's attachment that
brings suffering.
>>REGINA: So if you were
looking at their palms
just as a broad stroke, because
we don't have a saint here
present to read,
what would you say
the broad stroke of a hand that
is unencumbered would look like?
>>MAHABAL: They don't
have material desires.
There's no lust.
There's no greed.
There's no envy.
They're free from this.
>>REGINA: And so that
would show in the hands.
>>MAHABAL: That
shows in the hands.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>MAHABAL: And let's say the
most difficult hands to look
at sometimes in
the way of people
not having faith in
the spiritual aspects
is that they're covered by lust
and greed and anger, you see.
Anger is the opposite
of love, you see.
So--
>>REGINA: And all this shows up.
>>MAHABAL: All this-- yes.
And you can see--
>>REGINA: OK, so you mentioned
something a little bit
ago, which I had
never thought of.
And I want to
divert for a moment.
You were saying
that on the surface,
we're not African American,
we're not Asian, Caucasian.
We're none of these things
on a soul level, very true.
However, when you
get into a body
and you're imprinted
by your culture
and your ancestral
belief systems,
do you find that there
are collective patterns
within different, say, racial
groups or geographical groups
of people?
>>MAHABAL: Yes, absolutely.
In other words, the
whole mastery of life,
as we see in palmistry,
when a person becomes
aware of their devotional life,
is that they live in the world,
but they're not of it.
So there's no reason not to use
the facilities of this material
world.
We're part of it.
And of course, we do
have certain natures,
certain cultures.
And of course, that's
part of us too.
But at the same
time, it's temporary.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
just this little glimpse.
>>MAHABAL: It's going to change
at the end of the physical body.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
I'm still curious.
So, for example, if you're
among a group of people
that has been
treated very badly,
marginalized, not allowed
to fully express oneself,
does that show up in
that culture's hands?
>>MAHABAL: Oh, absolutely.
This all has to do
with karmic effects.
So if someone has put someone
through suffering in the past,
they have to taste that
result in the next life.
If someone has done very
good work in previous lives,
they will achieve so much
good result in the next lives,
you see.
Our activities in
this life directly
affect what we're doing in
this life and the next life.
>>REGINA: Well,
and actually, there
are a lot of people do
take kind of exception
to that notion thinking,
well, wait a minute.
But if you have done something
that is out of integrity,
unkind to another
soul or a group
of souls, that lowers your
vibrational frequency.
Everything is just
frequency, right?
And so you're going to--
>>MAHABAL: It's good question.
>>REGINA: You're going to find
a match for that frequency
in the next incarnation?
>>MAHABAL: Yeah,
and the idea here
is that if we go
through suffering,
we perpetrated suffering
on ourselves or others
before that, otherwise,
it's impossible for us
to suffer if we didn't
perpetrate that.
The demigods and the goddesses
are delineating our karma,
both good and bad, what we call
in Sanskrit akarma or moksha
karma or pious karma, akarma.
In other words, if
someone is going
through collective suffering
or their own suffering,
it's better just to
tolerate it and let it go.
That's the best way to deal
with difficult situations,
to just be tolerant, be
humble, and let it go.
Don't react, you see.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that's the challenge.
>>MAHABAL: That's the challenge.
And of course, that has
to do with how advanced
a person is as a soul, you see.
An advanced soul will say, hey,
I perpetrated this suffering
on myself or others
in a previous life.
So let me just tolerate it, be
happy, and just move forward.
>>REGINA: That's
a very good point
because it's not linear either.
Sometimes a soul can
go through and develop,
develop their qualities or
traits throughout lifetimes.
But there's some tidying
up to do from long ago,
another time just to finish it
off and offer a final lesson.
And, for example, humility--
so being exposed to
or having unfairness projected
upon them in a lifetime, that's
a chance to be humble, which
is very hard for human beings
to do.
>>MAHABAL: But humility
doesn't cost a dime.
And it makes one actually
very aware of what's actually
going on deeper behind
the scenes internally
and externally.
I'll give you an example.
Many times I will see
in somebody's hand
that, let's say, a boy or a girl
had struggles with, let's say,
their father, or the father
was absent or difficult to work
with.
And 100% of the time, Regina,
it has to do with the fact
that they were an absent
father or a difficult father
in their previous life.
So they have to taste
the results of that.
So hopefully, my job is to
say, hey, when you get older,
be a good dad.
Be a good mom.
And break the cycle, you see.
The whole point of suffering
actually is for purification.
That's the reason
in this material.
That's what we see in the hand.
In other words, if someone
sees suffering as purification,
oh, I went through this
in my previous life,
I did this, let me just be
tolerant, be humble, and move
forward, then they actually
become more advanced.
But a person who
blames others and--
>>REGINA: Not good.
>>MAHABAL: It has
the opposite effect
because they're not learning.
Advancement of consciousness
comes from purification.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and I think
just in terms of language,
I just call it
vibrational refinement.
>>MAHABAL: I like that.
>>REGINA: Everything's
vibrating,
and it can vibrate low.
It can vibrate high.
But you really aren't
a match for the thing
that you're not
doing at that moment.
>>MAHABAL: Exactly.
>>REGINA: You slot in
where your vibrations are.
So I like the way you put that.
>>MAHABAL: Exactly.
And if someone sees--
and obviously, it's difficult
in this day and age.
But if someone sees
God in the universe
as friendly and favorable,
hey, whatever I'm going through
is for my benefit, good and bad.
If good stuff happens to
me, I offer the results
to God and others.
And if bad stuff
happens to me, I'll
tolerate it and try to learn.
Hey, what's the lesson here?
And that person moves through
life with peace and balance
and harmony, you see.
They don't blame others.
They blame themselves, you see
>>REGINA: Yes.
[LAUGHS] OK, so you say you
can see also the three--
going back to the functional
component part of the story,
you can see three
distinct components
of the soul in the hands.
What are those components?
>>MAHABAL: In Sanskrit, it's
called sat-chit-ananda--
knowledge, joyfulness,
and eternality.
And that is the
composition of the soul,
pure love, pure devotion.
The constitutional makeup of
the soul is absolute love.
And so when one advances
in consciousness,
they realize that,
actually, if I
do things in love and
devotion, I will become happy,
and I will have a good
effect upon others.
And the soul is not just
some energy or some--
it's not just some
ball of energy.
It's not just a ball of light.
In the spiritual
world, we actually
have a form, just like we have
a body now, but it's temporary.
It's subject to birth and
death and disease and old age.
In the spiritual world, we
actually have an eternal form.
We could be a boy or a
girl or a man or a woman
or a great gandharva,
demigod, or something.
But that form never changes.
It never goes through death
or old age or disease.
And that's an eternal form.
So that's the goal.
>>REGINA: And you can see
those three components again
in the poem that you
were talking about.
These are the three components
of the soul recognizable--
>>MAHABAL: Oh, absolutely,
>>REGINA: --in the palm.
>>MAHABAL: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So you can see what
level of development a person's
at on the soul level.
>>MAHABAL: Absolutely.
Because the soul
is also emitting
knowledge of previous lives
and what this life is about.
So it's the repository of where
we've been and where we're going
and what we're here to achieve.
So in that way, the soul shows
its eternality in that aspect
also.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that's wonderful.
OK, so one of the big
things people want to know--
and it can happen at
any age where they've
gone through their lives.
They've taken responsibility,
paid the bills.
And even at retirement,
the retired and it's still,
I just don't know
what I'm here for.
I just don't know what
I'm supposed to do.
How advantageous might it
be if your parents could
have a glimpse into
what you were here
to do before this
whole journey begins?
Because you say,
you can see what
your dharma is, what your
true expression in life
is in the palms, in your hands.
>>MAHABAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: So your life purpose.
So let's talk about
that for a moment
and give us a couple
examples of people
you've read, maybe when
they were a little younger,
and saw how it turned out later.
>>MAHABAL: Well,
that's interesting
because in our culture, our
careers change so often,
sometimes every 10 years.
When you look at someone or
you look at hands from old palm
prints made out of
ink and like that,
you see people who
grew up on a farm.
Their parents trained them.
And they work with alfalfa or
wheat the rest of their life,
or they work with a
lathe their entire life.
We see that in hands that are
100, 200 years old, let's say,
prints, hand prints.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>MAHABAL: People learn their
trade from their parents,
and they continued on that
throughout their lives.
And in this culture, it's
completely different.
It's like every 10 years, a
person can change a career.
And we have to look at that.
>>REGINA: So do our
hands look schizophrenic?
But let's hold on a minute here.
So your family
does raise alfalfa.
So you're born into this family,
and your prints are showing.
You're here to also
continue in the tradition.
So now you come to a world
that's corporate driven, where
in corporate world, your
skills are salesmanship,
maybe, or just keeping
things organized.
They're not so distinct.
And you can move around
even every few years
if you want to in
the corporate world.
How does that show in a hand?
Because it's not exactly
necessarily a dharma,
that you have leadership
skills maybe, the dharma.
But most people working
in the corporate world,
is that their dharma or for the
state government or whatever?
How does that look in the
palms now of modern society?
>>MAHABAL: Well, I
have to say, Regina,
that most of the people I look
at are not in the right careers.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
why I'm asking you this.
That's what I would guess.
>>MAHABAL: They're doing careers
that they're not born to do
or acclimated so well to do.
And it's because our
society waylays us
from doing the work
that we're here to do.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>MAHABAL: And that's
also very difficult, too.
And that has everything to do
with that we're not really--
our society is not really
that grounded in that way.
>>REGINA: Well,
the whole structure
is ordered toward profit.
So how can you have
a grounded society
that's ordered toward
profit, profit, profit?
Doesn't matter where you go.
It's margins and profits,
whether it's, like I said,
governmental or corporate or
in corporatocracy in general.
Where is there room for a
person's soul expression
unless you claim it early
on and stay with it?
>>MAHABAL: It's
much harder with it.
It's much harder.
That's why in previous cultures
of hundreds and hundreds, maybe
even thousands of
years ago, people
would do their work that
they were born to do.
And they had time
for spiritual life.
They had time to
think, who am I?
What am I here to do?
They had time to
cultivate thoughts
of God and spirituality.
And in our culture, we're so
busy making a living at work
that we're not even
acclimated to do.
We lose our spiritual culture.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So is this actually showing
up in people's hands--
>>MAHABAL: Yes, it is.
>>REGINA: --this
schizophrenic way of living?
>>MAHABAL: Schizophrenic,
I like that.
>>REGINA: On a spiritual
level, it's schizophrenic.
>>MAHABAL: Yeah, I have to
say that the soul is general--
it is an entity that is god
conscious or goddess conscious.
That's just its nature.
But in our culture, we've
lost that natural inclination
to think of spiritual matters
because our leaders are bad
right now.
People don't know what
saintly qualities are.
There's not a lot of people
who have good examples.
There's not a lot
of good examples
of people who have morals
and standards and ethics.
>>REGINA: I couldn't agree more.
>>MAHABAL: That's the problem.
>>REGINA: So here we are.
That's where we are right now.
But you said, too, that
in another five or six
years, once we start getting
out to 2030, '31, '32,
we're going to see
this vast change where
we start moving back into mind,
body, spirit as a way of living.
>>MAHABAL: That's because our
current society, as it is,
will go the way of the dinosaur.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because
we're going to reject it.
It's not working for us.
>>MAHABAL: It's not working.
>>REGINA: So in
another few years--
that's not that very
many years away--
my dream is to be able to see
people live their true dharma.
The thing that would
make me happiest
is that humanity shows
up, and each person
brings that natural talent and
skill of the thing they were
born to do through and lives.
Imagine the
complexity of society
and the peace that
would exist if everyone
did what they were born to do.
>>MAHABAL: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MAHABAL: And of course, I'm
a product of Western society,
and I love Western society.
But the problem
in Western society
is that it's based on
sense gratification.
It's based on eating
and sleeping and mating
and defending.
Whereas we look at the ancient
cultures and their culture
was based more on
spiritual principles.
They understood they
weren't their body.
were spiritual soul.
So the entire foundation
of their society
was different than ours.
That's what's happening.
>>REGINA: So here we are.
I mean, we've gone
through industrialization,
and now we're watching
it start to decompose.
>>MAHABAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And we're
going to watch
the resurgence of
our understanding
of an absolute need for
our mind, body, and spirit
to be integrated and offer
who we are to the planet.
Meanwhile, there are some
power spots on our hands
that also can be used to work
with our psychic and intuitive
forces, which we're needing
more and more because so
much of the world is
just a flat-out lie.
What we're being presented is
just fabrication, delusion,
lies.
All of us are sick of it.
We need to know how to use
our intuition more strongly.
So what are the power
spots on the hands?
>>MAHABAL: I just want
to make one comment based
on what you were saying before.
Even though everything looks
very dark and dismal right now,
if you look at the
astrological aspects,
in about two, two
and a half years,
the planets start moving
into very nice, auspicious,
if you will, positions.
So the next year
and a half may be
quite contentious and
difficult and a struggle,
but we're actually moving--
the future is bright.
>>REGINA: Yeah, well, we have
to move through the chaos
and the destruction.
>>MAHABAL: The future is bright.
>>REGINA: And personally,
I'm excited because, usually,
my being is almost always
future pacing things.
So even when things are
wonderful and bright
and everything
seems to be flowing,
I'll feel a little
unease in my belly
because I'm feeling
what's coming.
And I've got to say-- and
my body is my tuning fork--
I'm excited about the future.
So I think I'm already tapping
into those creative forces--
>>MAHABAL: You are.
>>REGINA: --pretty strongly.
>>REGINA: So I agree.
It's bright, so not
to let this get us
down this next year and a half.
>>MAHABAL: Yes.
If a person's going through some
quandary or internal struggle
or they just want
to, should I do this?
Or should I do that?
Should I take this job?
Or should I take that job?
Take your left hand and
put it on your heart
and just leave it
there for a few.
Or just keep your hands
together in a clasping mode
and just go internal for a few
minutes, maybe just a minute
or two and just ask, hey,
what should I be doing?
Because what you're
doing when you're
bringing your hands
together or you're
putting on your heart,
especially this,
you're bringing both brains
together, the right brain
and the left hand.
And by amalgamating the two,
there's a symmetry and a harmony
there.
So if you're feeling a sense
of indecision or confusion,
put your hand on your
heart and just go internal.
What do I do?
Ask for guidance.
Ask for intuition.
Ask for insight.
>>REGINA: So that's the best
way, the most direct way to--
>>MAHABAL: Like this.
>>REGINA: --access it.
Does the right have
to be over the left?
Or it doesn't matter?
>>MAHABAL: Doesn't matter.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MAHABAL: And
what it does is it
brings, like I say, a
harmony and a symmetry
between both brains
and a peace together.
And then one can come up with--
definitely, an intuition or a
revelation will come through.
>>REGINA: Any other
little hacks like that
of ways to activate
our psychic abilities
or just stick with
this one as the best?
>>MAHABAL: I think these
are the two most powerful,
holding your left
hand over your heart
or keeping your hands
together, almost
like in prayer form, because
this is what prayer means,
really.
In other words, you're
asking for insight.
You're praying to God or the
higher powers, let's say.
Give me some insight.
Give me some awareness.
Tell me what to do.
And you're getting it both from
yourself and the higher powers.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about our hands collectively.
We talked about
that a moment ago
of what you're seeing now in
people's hands as you read them
and where you would start
seeing this kind of breakdown
in society before
we break through.
What does that look
like in our hands?
>>MAHABAL: Well,
interestingly enough,
Regina, I am seeing that
the generation that is like,
let's say, 14 to 26, they are
an interesting generation.
>>REGINA: Oh, I want
to talk about that.
That was my next question.
>>MAHABAL: And I don't
mean that they're
going to be moral in
a religious sense,
although that can be there.
But they are going to be very
much into right and wrong.
They're going to be
very much into ethics
and morals, high standards.
It's going to be a very
different generation.
Of course, when they
become like, let's say, 40,
we'll see the result of that.
But this generation from,
let's say, roughly from 13
to 14 to 25, 26, 27,
they're going to be very,
let's say, upstanding,
if you will, generation.
>>REGINA: Is that classically
what's referred to as Gen Z?
>>MAHABAL: I'm not sure.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I think that's--
>>MAHABAL: I'm not really sure.
>>REGINA: I think that's Gen
Z that you're speaking about.
>>MAHABAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And it is interesting.
In fact, I was reading
an article this morning,
a little news article of a
mother trying to figure out how
to help her child through the--
her child's old
enough to vote now.
And the child has their
blue hair and all of this.
And they're saying,
these are all bums.
I can't vote, in any conscience,
for any of these people.
And so parents are
going to have to learn.
You can't stick
these younger people
into the same kind of
mindset that you were raised
in because this isn't working.
>>MAHABAL: It's kind
of like Americans
in the '50s and '60s and '70s.
They built America.
They were an amazing generation,
the Silent Generation.
They had that
desire and that goal
to build America,
make America strong.
That's going the way--
that's changing now.
We don't see a lot
of young people
who are that patriotic
for better or for worse,
that we don't really see
that, quote unquote, very
goal-oriented, driven
ethic in their hands.
So that's going to
change, you see.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and I think
parents are kind of at a loss
to give guidance,
which in a sense--
I mean, again, that's where
it's so beautiful to understand.
If they're beginning to feel,
if they're-- are you seeing that
they're more open, that
generation is more open
to feeling their own talents and
a little bit more of their own
mission in life?
>>MAHABAL: I am
seeing that they're
kind of going through
a lot of quandary.
They're a little
bit lost right now.
It's hard for them to assimilate
into society right now.
But that will change.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because
we're still like,
you graduate from high school.
You go to college.
You get a job in the corporate
world or the professions
or something.
That's not going
to work for them.
>>MAHABAL: It's not
working for them.
They're feeling, right now,
not very part of society.
They are feeling a bit lost.
That's what I see over and over.
I just have to reassure them
that just take some time.
Do things you like to do.
Don't worry about having going
to college and getting a degree
and just staying in that all
your life because you're not
going to.
It's a different world.
>>REGINA: It's a
different world.
>>MAHABAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So they are a
breakthrough generation.
And like all
breakthrough generations,
you're going to feel
a little out of sync
with the prevailing world.
But they have each other.
I mean, certainly,
their peers are
going through the same thing.
>>MAHABAL: Case in point,
I was talking to someone--
and this was just
three days ago.
He was 25 years old.
He was going for an RN.
He wanted to become a nurse.
He wants to become a nurse.
He's not even sure that
he wants to do that.
So I was seeing in
his hand that he
has this talent and that talent
and this talent and that talent.
And I just said, you know what?
Explore everything right now
because it's a very difficult
world right now.
And do the best you can.
In the '80s and the '90s,
it was so much easier to--
>>REGINA: Slot in somewhere.
>>MAHABAL: Yeah, exactly.
And you know what, Regina?
I see this all the time.
I rarely meet someone
who's, let's say, 40
and is using the degree,
the college degree that they
got when they were 20.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
>>MAHABAL: And so
that wasn't the case
in the '50s and '60s and '70s.
And so this generation is having
a great difficulty fitting in,
feeling, where do I belong?
What am I here to do?
It's a very difficult
time for them.
But this will change,
and they'll find it.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
what the parents can do now
for this generation of people
from roughly 14 to 26 or so,
people going into the
workforce, college,
finishing up their
schooling, high school.
What's the best thing we can do
to not stymie who they truly are
and to allow them to discover
their dharma at an earlier age
than we ever did?
>>MAHABAL: I love that question.
Not put pressure on them.
Let them do what
they need to do.
We even see-- and I
see this in hands,
but you don't have
to be a palmist
to see that-- that
they have interests
or, let's say, opinions that
are so opposite each other.
We see generations
before that that
knew exactly what they wanted
to do and how they felt. Now,
the generations that we
see, let's say, the 13, 14,
and like that, they
have divergent opinions.
And they're not even sure
what they believe in.
So I would say, these parents
should just say, try this.
Try that.
Try this.
And think about what you
want to do for the future.
Don't put pressure
on them to try
to become successful
right now because it's not
happening right now.
>>REGINA: Excellent advice.
We have to keep in mind
this is the generation
that's been tasked with
starting this massive societal
restructuring.
As adults, they're going to
have to build these structures.
And we will inherit them when
we reincarnate in the future.
Gen Z is a very, very
important generation,
I think, the group
you're talking about.
>>MAHABAL: I have
to agree with you.
I just see them as
amazing, amazing souls.
>>REGINA: Smart.
>>MAHABAL: Oh, incredibly--
>>MAHABAL: --incredibly
smart, very perceptive,
able to see underneath
the surface of things.
I mean, they grew up
with the internet.
So it's not that they're just
getting their news from ABC,
CBS, and NBC anymore and
whatever Walter Cronkite said,
they believe.
Those days are over.
So this generation
is very perceptive.
And it also makes them unclear
about certain things, too.
>>REGINA: Well,
sure, they're young.
I mean, the brain doesn't stop
developing until we're what, 28.
So they have to go through
all this developmental stuff
and then try to feel
themselves in the midst of it.
If we don't make so much
noise and put so much pressure
on them, my hope is that they'll
be able to feel who they are
and what they're here
to do at a younger age
so they can participate in
this beautiful mosaic of what
our societies
>>MAHABAL: Oh, Iove that.
>>REGINA: --will look
like in the future.
>>MAHABAL: I love that.
And we're also seeing
that they're not
fitting in because the
society that they're living in
is coming to an end.
>>REGINA: Yes, it's
supposed to be--
>>MAHABAL: It's
coming to an end.
>>REGINA: This is all perfect.
It's not like they're just
left behind, not at all.
They've come to change things.
And of course, they're
going to feel out
of sorts while the
old is still in place.
But that's not going to
be in place much longer.
>>MAHABAL: And my prediction
is that when this--
and I see this all
the time, Regina--
when they become in their 40s,
they're going to know who they
are.
They're going to know
exactly who they are.
The generations from the '50s
and the '60s kind of understood
themselves when they
were 22, 23, 24, 25.
The generation
after that started
to understand themselves after
what we call Saturn return.
>>REGINA: Yeah, after
28, and the 30s.
>>MAHABAL: After 28, 30.
This generation is going
to understand themselves
when they're 40.
>>REGINA: Another
20 years from now.
>>MAHABAL: Exactly.
>>REGINA: A lot of time to
really try to be their allies.
>>MAHABAL: Exactly.
I love that.
That's exactly it.
>>REGINA: They're precious.
We've got to support them.
So, Vernon, this is wonderful.
I love the depth of
this conversation.
And you have a very sweet soul
and understanding of what we all
need to do to help each other.
And I very much appreciate that.
>>MAHABAL: Well, thank you.
>>REGINA: Any final thought
before we sign off today?
>>MAHABAL: Well, if you look
at hands long enough for years
and years, you
start to see that,
actually, human
beings are very sweet.
The soul is good.
Even though we go through
very difficult circumstances
and there's so many demonic
things going on in this world--
let's be honest about it--
still, we'll get through this.
We'll get through this--
>>REGINA: I feel a
very bright future.
>>MAHABAL: --because
the soul is good.
I mean, the soul is part and
parcel of god and the goddess.
Our nature is to be of service.
We're happiest giving
a gift rather than
getting a gift because
the nature of our soul
is to help and heal.
And so we're going
back to that now.
We will be.
And the future is bright.
Even though it looks
really dismal right now,
any astrologer worth their salt
will tell you the same thing,
that we see a bright future.
And it takes time.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it takes time.
>>MAHABAL: It takes time.
And this culture has been in
place for a good 150 years,
if not longer.
And so it does
take some time to--
I hate to use the word
"break down," if you will.
>>REGINA: The transformation
of large institutions
doesn't happen overnight.
>>MAHABAL: Exactly.
And it's painful.
>>REGINA: It breaks down
one brick at a time.
>>MAHABAL: It's painful.
>>REGINA: And we're several
bricks into it at this point.
One final quick question,
the younger generation
that we've been speaking about,
Gen Z, our future transformers,
maybe give us a couple
traits of their hands
that is more common to that
generation than others.
And for example, I remember,
in our last conversation,
you were talking
about this where,
if people aren't able to
really open their mind
and flow with the new
easily, oftentimes there
will be a little bit of
stuck energy in the thumb.
Are you finding there are
certain traits of the younger
generation that are more
common to them than en masse
than before?
Like, for example, do you
get more activity there,
more open-mindedness,
more stubbornness?
Or what do you get
in their hands?
>>MAHABAL: Yeah, that's
a great question.
I do see a lot of confusion.
And at the same time, I do
see, very, very deeply within,
a strong will.
These are--
>>REGINA: Which finger
is the will again?
I'm not going to put
it up, but which one?
>>MAHABAL: The thumb.
>>REGINA: The thumb?
>>MAHABAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Yeah, the thumb, what
you were talking about.
>>MAHABAL: And it's
interesting because you
were holding your thumb.
And I was just thinking,
hey, that's what I see.
In other words,
this is a generation
that, although they are
going through difficult times
internally and externally,
at the same time,
they do have an inherent,
strong drive and determination.
And they will be driven in a way
that's not just materialistic
but driven as in they
have strong character.
Their character will be strong.
That's what I see.
Overwhelmingly,
they will have-- not
to say that other generations
didn't have strong character.
>>REGINA: No, I love this.
>>MAHABAL: But they will
have very strong character.
And this is what I'm
seeing in the idea
that they will be a
moral, if you will,
generation, a generation based
on ethics and right and wrong
and what is good for society.
They will be a very
upstanding generation.
>>REGINA: I love this.
>>MAHABAL: Character
is big in them.
>>REGINA: Funny you should say
that because I just recently did
a commentary that I put out
called Character is Destiny.
That's what we have to start
looking for in ourselves
and each other is high
character logical traits,
because that's the thing
that's going to pull us in away
from the old and into the new.
So I love that you said that.
It was very validating for me.
Vernon, thank you so much.
We've gone a little
over our time,
but I'm glad you answered
that last question.
They have a lot of
will, which they need,
to take us into these new
times when they become adults.
>>MAHABAL: Regina, they're
not a weak generation,
although they are operating
right now in very difficult
situations, and they
may appear weak and--
yeah.
But ultimately, inherently,
they're not a weak generation.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK, it's all part of
the greater picture.
It's beautiful.
Thank you so much, Vernon.
I'm so glad to see you again.
>>MAHABAL: Thank you.
It's been such a pleasure.
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: To learn more about
Vernon's wonderful work,
you can buy his books
at major booksellers
or go to palmistryinstitute.com.
Again, you might want to go back
and watch our previous interview
for more background on
hand reading as well.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]